the European Union has backed a call
from the UN Human Rights Chief vulka
Turk for an independent investigation
into the hundreds of bodies discovered
at the hospitals destroyed in Israeli
military
operations we are gravely concerned by
the by the reported discovery of mass
graves in Khan Yunis and in alifa
hospital this is something that uh
forces us to call for an independent
investigation of all the suspicions and
all the circumstances uh because indeed
uh it uh it creates the the that there
might have been violations of
international human rights committee
that's why it's important to have
independent investigation and to ensure
the
accountability vill marks joins us now
live from London and vill what do we
think the impact of this demand for an
independent investigation on Israel
might
be well Nick I've reached out to the
Israeli military to find out whether
they'd be prepared to facilitate
independent investigators I've not heard
back from them I also reached out to the
Israeli Prime Minister's office for a
response or comment on this demand from
the European Union no response over the
last hour or so historically they've not
been enthusiastic about independent
investigators operating inside Gaza and
what they've often said is that because
there are ongoing military operations it
would be too dangerous for that to
happen The Mechanics for the EU to
enforce this demand for an independent
investigation are unclear reaching out
to the spokesperson you just heard from
there Peter stano he said this was often
the requirement the EU made they would
like to see independent investigations
of any number of issues but but they
didn't have a specific body in mind that
would carry those out they did point us
though to comments yesterday from Joseph
Bell the senior Diplomat for the
European Union speaking to the European
Parliament in which he talked about that
world Central Kitchen strike several
weeks ago in which Israel acknowledged
responsibility acknowledged it was a
grave error and he said it raised
questions as to how often that had
happened before without there being the
intense Spotlight placed on Israel in
relation to other events Nick
all right vill we'll leave it there for
the moment thanks a lot to vill Mark in
London make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler